### Boilerplate for REDCap at OUHSC, written by David, Geneva, & Will

Data for this study will be entered into REDCap, a database software system developed by Vanderbilt University for electronic collection and management of research and clinical trial data. REDCap uses a MySQL backend database via secure web interface with data checks used during data entry to ensure data quality.  REDCap includes a complete suite of features to support HIPAA and FERPA compliance, including a full audit trail, user-based privileges, and integration with the institutional LDAP server.  REDCap also enables automated export mechanism to common statistical packages (SPSS, SAS, Stata, R/S-Plus), simultaneous multi-user and multi-site access, full control over individual-level data access permissions, and remote survey and form-based data capture methods.  REDCap technical support is provided by the Biomedical and Behavioral Methodology Core of the Department of Pediatrics, OUMC.  The MySQL database and the web server will both be housed on secure servers operated by OUMC Information Technology.  The entire database system exists on virtual servers that reside in a high availability cluster, and in the event of a hardware related problem, these databases will simply relocate to another server location in the cluster.  The database servers are configured for nightly exports that are then backed up using an enterprise backup solution.  Backups are retained for up to 90 days.  The OUHSC IT servers provide a stable, secure, well-maintained high-capacity data storage environment, and both REDCap and MySQL are widely-used, powerful, reliable, well-supported systems.  Access to the study’s data in REDCap will be restricted to the members of the study team by username and password.
