### Written for ???

The External Evaluator will be the Center on Child Abuse and Neglect (CCAN) housed within the Department of Pediatrics at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center (OUHSC). CCAN at OUHSC brings significant resources and capacities to this project. The OUHSC is a multi-college campus housing the Colleges of Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, Allied, Health, and Dentistry as well as the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation. Full library, data analysis, management and professional support services are available on campus. The campus is also equipped with video teleconference technology. The OUHSC computer network is a fully equipped client‐server environment with a range of on‐line services including e‐mail, remote backup, database applications, data analysis applications (SPSS, SAS, LISREL, etc.), document servers, on‐line access to library search services, and internet access.

CCAN is a university‐based, interdisciplinary center dedicated to the prevention and treatment of child abuse and neglect. CCAN directs research, program administration, clinical services, professional education, program development, and public education in the field of child maltreatment. CCAN has a long‐standing history in the community, state, and nation in conducting clinical implementation and dissemination research on the prevention and treatment services for child maltreatment. CCAN team members include established federally funded scientific researchers with extensive publication records, including experience conducting treatment outcome trials in real‐world field settings. These include expertise in evaluating EBP uptake at client, provider, organizational and systems levels, use of mixed-methods approaches (quantitative/qualitative methods), web‐based surveys, automated or computerized interviews, conducting qualitative interviews and focus groups, cross‐site data capture, centralized data management and data analysis capabilities ranging from basic to advanced. This includes a wide range of data capture, data storage and data analysis equipment and software, along with years of experience in programming and using these technologies. We have assisted other sites with institutional review board (IRB) application and approval and in fact helped established an IRB in St. Petersburg, Russia.

CCAN has over 60 networked PC’s including a database server. Data acquired for this project would be centrally stored on the database server running MySQL Server, allowing for multiple user access and data entry with security control. The server is fault tolerant (dual processors, mirrored drives, uninterrupted power source) and incrementally backed up daily with weekly off‐site tape backups that are stored in a fireproof safe. CCAN has an experienced data collection and management team that includes independent data collectors, data managers and analysts with expertise in implementing state‐wide studies/evaluations. CCAN has the capability to deploy audio‐assisted computer self‐interviewing, optical mark reader scan forms, and more traditional information collection methodologies, with direct uploading to SQL databases and automated data screening and cleaning.

The strength of the CCAN investigators lies in their capacity to accommodate reasonable scientific rigor within the demands and realities of this fairly unique service context, along with our well established research‐practice partnerships with state authorities and frontline service provider agencies. We believe that service quality and client outcomes are best advanced by research that involves the system and front‐line service providers as partners in identifying key questions and targets. We also are committed to research that both advances current scientific knowledge and that offers direct benefit to our state agency and provider partners. Finally, our work relies on a translational framework that emphasizes comparative outcomes observed in authentic real‐world settings. Although these types of studies necessarily compromise on some aspects of variable control, they offer external validity advantages which we believe outweigh their limitations.
